Now that we have two entity models in place,
we can tie them together with a JPA relationship that will
match the database table relationship.
Speakers and sessions are connected via a union or join table,
so we need to set up a many-to-many relationship in our models
that will match that database relationship.
Let's start with the Session entity.
You need to pick one side of your relationship to be the owner
or main definition point of the relationship.
I'm going to use the Session class for this.
I'll begin by adding a list of associated speakers by adding a new attribute,
like this.
This is pulling in a list of speakers now,
so you'll need to import the List class,
which is from java.util,
and this ends up just being another field on the Session entity,
so I need to add a getter and setter for that.
So I'll click down here and just go to Generate Getter and Setter.
I can select the new value, click OK,
and I now have a basic relationship on the one side of the many-to-many.
Next comes the hard part with defining the relationship.
To tell JPA how this works,
we'll need to add some annotations over the attribute,
like this.
We need the @ManyToMany annotation, go ahead and port that,
the JoinTable, the @JoinColumn, and the definition for the JoinTable.
Here's quickly what these annotations mean.
The first ManyToMany means that you're setting up a many-to-many relationship
and that you have a mapping JoinTable in your database.
The second annotation defines that JoinTable and the foreign key columns.
So in this case, the table is session_speakers,
which has a session_id and a speaker_id foreign key to the
appropriate tables in the relationship.
Now that this is defined,
JPA will set up the SQL join automatically for you when you
make a call to the speakers attribute.
Let's go ahead and jump over to the Speaker entity,
and the last thing that needs to happen is we need to define the
many-to-many relationship on the speakers side.
This will make the relationship bidirectional.
Again,
I'm going to add the attribute pointing to Session and
generate getters and setters for it.
So it will again be a List type, so we'll have to import the java.util list.
This time, we're pointing back to sessions,
and we can create some getters and setter for it,
right-click and generate them, and save the file.
The annotation on this side of the relationship is a little easier
since we simply need to specify that it is the other side of the
existing many-to-many relationship.
We can do that by adding this annotation.
We'll import that class, and you'll notice that it's mapped by speakers,
which is referring to the attribute on the Sessions class called the speakers.
And that's it for our relationships.
We just have one last piece to deal with on the entities, and that is the speaker photo, which we'll deal with next.